Use casc for exws (#2365)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2019/07/2019-07-04-use-casc-for-exws.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Use Terraform with External Workspace Manager to Support EFS"
tags:
- jenkins
- gsoc
author: yufei_zhang
description: "A brief example of using Terraform with EFS" # optional
opengraph:
---

=== Why you want to use External Workspace Manager with EFS

> What is Terraform : A CasC software, like CloudFormation and Ansible designed for managing cloud resources. It can free you from managing cloud resource by console, and can be version controlled using git as it is configuration-as-code. Currently it supports AWS and Azure best. AWS CloudFormation is for AWS only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is Terraform : A configuration management software, like CloudFormation and Ansible designed for managing cloud resources. It can free you from managing cloud resource by console, and can be version controlled using git as it is configuration-as-code. Currently it supports AWS and Azure best. AWS CloudFormation is for AWS only.
```

What is extenal-workspace-manager : It is a pipeline plugin which customizes the workspace path. The same disk can be mounted to multiple nodes to share resources
What is EFS : Amazon Elastic File System, an Network File System, can be shared among a lot of EC2 instances.

Who should read this blog :

> . build Jenkins based on cloud, want to have good version control over all resources including infrastructure; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You run Jenkins in the AWS cloud, want to have good version control over all resources including infrastructure; 
```

> . You want to share workspace among agents (slaves), there might be an upstream job creating a large file and don't want to copy it into downstream job's workspace because it's time-consuming; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You want to share workspace among agents, there might be an upstream job creating a large file and don't want to copy it into downstream job's workspace because it's time-consuming; 
```

Please avoid using old terminology

. You're afraid of running out of workspaces, and wants an extensible disk.

Who should not read this blog : 

. Skilled AWS architecture already using CasC tools
. Ops already using CasC and know how to provision EFS to a Jenkins node using user data.
. Running Jenkins in local physical machine, and do not build Jenkins based on Clouds.

What you'll want to do, is to learn external-workspace-manager directly to do similiar things, see blog link : link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/external-workspace-manager-plugin[External Workspace Manager]

> This tutorial use AWS as example, but other clouds like Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure are also supported. (same mechanism, different syntax), and here we go.

Reviewer 2: `This tutorial use AWS as example` should read `This tutorial uses AWS as example`

# then you mount the EFS

mount -t ${EFS_ID}:/ /home/jenkins/custom-workspace-path/

# then do other things
```

Now you have defined a EC2 instance with an EFS mounted. (But it's not created yet, you need to run some commands to actually create that, this is just like a blueprint)

=== Use auto scaling groups

Next steps would be defining auto-scaling-groups as slaves. The user-data part is almost the same, only that you need to put user data in the launch configuration of an auto scaling group.

```
resource "aws_autoscaling_group" "jenkins_slave_asg" {
  name                      = "jenkins-slave-asg"
  max_size                  = 5
  min_size                  = 2
  health_check_grace_period = 300
  health_check_type         = "ELB"
  desired_capacity          = 4
  force_delete              = true
  launch_configuration      = "${aws_launch_configuration.jenkins_slave_asg_launch_configuration.name}"
}

resource "aws_launch_configuration" "jenkins_slave_asg_launch_configuration" {
  name          = "jenkins-slave-asg-launch-configuration"
  image_id      = "ami-1571365314613"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  user_date     = ${data.template_file.jenkins_slave_start_script}"
}
```

> You can write a new user data for Jenkins slaves, with the same syntax above. Defining those files are just drawing blueprints. We need to execute some Terraform commands to make things happen. Simply go to the directory you have your .tf file, install terraform if not installed before,  then execute : 

Reviewer 2: The old terminology needs to be changed throughout this log post

```
terraform init   # download needed resources
terraform plan   # output a plan of what's gonna be created, destoryed or changed of your AWS resources
terraform apply  # apply those changes, it requires a confirmation before it actually does something.
```

We just showed a brief example of using Terraform, but you might want to learn Terraform in a more detailed way, some resources are :
link:https://www.terraform.io/intro/index.html[Terraform Get Started]

=== Use ec2-plugin with EFS

Jenkins provides plugins that can automatically create slave agents with large flexibility. link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/ec2-plugin[ec2-plugin], and ecs-plugin allow you either use an normal ec2 instance or the managed Elastic Container Service provided by AWS to provision slaves. They have almost the same configurable entries with Terraform, but not as flexible as Terraform because in more complicated cases, you want to create inter-dependencies across multiple AWS resources, and Terraform is designed for that. But if you don't want your Jenkins be too complex, those plugins would be perfect choice for you to automate nodes.

> === Jenkins CasC

Reviewer: Expand the acronym?
